README.md, before:

# simple-implementation-ECC


 A simple implementation for Elliptic Curve Cryptography. 
 

It implements the algorithm of 2D points over a finite field
(e.g., addition, doubling, multiplication and inverse),
the elliptic curve (in the form: y^2 = x^3 + ax + b), and the ECDH
(Elliptic Curve Diffie–Hellman) key exchange algorithm, including 
test cases for verification.

Generally speaking, it consists of the following 3 parts: 
the calculations over finite field, the elliptic curve and the 
ECDH key exchange.


I learnt many of concepts regarding ECC and ECDH here:


https://cryptobook.nakov.com/asymmetric-key-ciphers/elliptic-curve-cryptography-ecc


### Calculations Over Finite Field
This is in the "galois" package as the finite field is also called "galois field".


The implementation are inspired by the online discussions here:


https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/67171/calculating-the-modular-multiplicative-inverse-without-all-those-strange-looking/67190#67190


https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1340484/addition-of-points-on-elliptic-curves-over-a-finite-field


### The Elliptic Curve


"elliptic.go" defines a struct for the elliptic curve. Most of its functions are 
based on "galois-field.go" in the "galois" package.


### ECDH Key Exchange


Implements the encryption and decryption process of the ECDH key exchange, using
the GCM cipher.


Including files "ecdh.go" and "gcm.go".


### Testing


The testing is based on the curve y^2 = x^3 + 0x + 7 (mod 17), with a generator
point (15, 13). This is a very small sample used only for testing. Details of this curve
can be found in the first link.

### TODO


1. Better coding in "galois".
2. Currently, my codes assume all integers are at most 64 bits and there is 
no overflow during the process; however, in the real world most keys are 256+
bits. Since my codes are just experimental and not intended for production use,
this may not be a concern; however, consider an update in the future.
3. Implement ECIES (Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme).
4. Introduce auth tag for the encryption / decryption process to fully simulate
ECDH and ECIES.

Commit message:

update 2022/2/22 2
changed *Point to Point to better simulate the process of public key distributions and to guarantee no Point struct is changed unexpectedly.

updated readme

README.md, after:

# simple-implementation-ECC


 A simple implementation for Elliptic Curve Cryptography. 
 

It implements the algorithm of 2D points over a finite field
(e.g., addition, doubling, multiplication and inverse),
the elliptic curve (in the form: y^2 = x^3 + ax + b), and the ECDH
(Elliptic Curve Diffie–Hellman) key exchange algorithm, including 
test cases for verification.

Generally speaking, it consists of the following 3 parts: 
the calculations over finite field, the elliptic curve and the 
ECDH key exchange.


I learnt many of concepts regarding ECC and ECDH here:


https://cryptobook.nakov.com/asymmetric-key-ciphers/elliptic-curve-cryptography-ecc


### Calculations Over Finite Field
This is in the "galois" package as the finite field is also called "galois field".


The implementation are inspired by the online discussions here:


https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/67171/calculating-the-modular-multiplicative-inverse-without-all-those-strange-looking/67190#67190


https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/1340484/addition-of-points-on-elliptic-curves-over-a-finite-field


Note that, different from my common practice, the "Point" object is passed as a struct
instead of a pointer. This will cause higher memory cost, but it simulates the ECC 
process in a better way, as public keys are distributed across the net as real copies 
(a stream of 0s and 1s) instead of a shared reference (usually 8-byte) to a single being.


### The Elliptic Curve


"elliptic.go" defines a struct for the elliptic curve. Most of its functions are 
based on "galois-field.go" in the "galois" package.


### ECDH Key Exchange


Implements the encryption and decryption process of the ECDH key exchange, using
the GCM cipher.


Including files "ecdh.go" and "gcm.go".


### Testing


The testing is based on the curve y^2 = x^3 + 0x + 7 (mod 17), with a generator
point (15, 13). This is a very small sample used only for testing. Details of this curve
can be found in the first link.


Example of how to use my codes to simulate the ECDH key exchange process can be
found in the test file "ecdh_test.go".


### TODO


1. Better coding in "galois".
2. Currently, my codes assume all integers are at most 64 bits and there is 
no overflow during the process; however, in the real world most keys are 256+
bits. Since my codes are just experimental and not intended for production use,
this may not be a concern; however, consider an update in the future.
3. Implement ECIES (Elliptic Curve Integrated Encryption Scheme).
4. Introduce auth tag for the encryption / decryption process to fully simulate
ECDH and ECIES.
